[Music]
you should be nice to nerds in fact I'd
go so far as to say if you don't already
have a nerd in your life you should get
one I'm just saying
scientists and engineers changed the
world I'd like to tell you about a
magical place called DARPA where
scientists and engineers defy the
impossible and refuse to fear failure
now these two ideas are connected more
than you may realize because when you
remove the fear of failure impossible
things suddenly become possible if you
want to know how ask yourself this
question what would you attempt to do if
you knew you could not fail if you
really ask yourself this question you
can't help but feel uncomfortable I feel
a little uncomfortable because when you
ask it you begin to understand how the
fear of failure constrains you how it
keeps us from attempting great things
and life gets dull amazing things stop
happening sure good things happen but
amazing things stop happening now I
should be clear I'm not encouraging
failure
I'm discouraging fear of failure because
it's not failure itself that constrains
us the path to truly new never been done
before things always has failure along
the way we're tested and in part that
testing feels an appropriate part of
achieving something great Clemenceau
said life gets interesting when we fail
because it's a sign that
we've surpassed ourselves in 1895 Lord
Kelvin declared that heavier-than-air
flying machines were impossible in
October of 1903 the prevailing opinion
of expert aerodynamicists was that maybe
in 10 million years we could build an
aircraft that would fly and two months
later on December 17 Orville Wright
powered the first airplane across a
beach in North Carolina the flight
lasted 12 seconds and covered 120 feet
that was 1903 one year later the next
declarations of impossibilities began
Ferdinand Fache a French army general
credited with having one of the most
original and subtle minds in the French
army said airplanes are interesting toys
but of no military value 40 years later
Aero experts coined the term transonic
they debate it should it have 1 s or 2
you see they were having trouble in this
flight regime and it wasn't at all clear
that we could fly faster than the speed
of sound in 1947 there was no wind
tunnel data beyond Mach 0.85 and yet on
Tuesday October 14th 1947 Chuck Yeager
climbed into the cockpit of his bell x-1
and he flew towards an unknown
possibility and in so doing he became
the first pilot to fly faster than the
speed of sound
six of eight Atlas Rockets blew up on
the pad after 11 complete mission
failures we got our first images from
space and on that first flight we got
more data than in all YouTube missions
combined it took a lot of failures to
get there since we took to the sky we
have wanted to fly faster and farther
and to do so we've had to believe in
impossible things and we've had to
refuse to fear failure that's still true
today today we don't talk about flying
transonic Li or even supersonic Li we
talk about flying hypersonically not
Mach 2 or Mach 3 Mach 20 at Mach 20 we
can fly from New York to Long Beach in
11 minutes and 20 seconds at that speed
the surface of the airfoil is the
temperature of molten steel 3500 degrees
Fahrenheit like a blast furnace we are
essentially burning the airfoil
as we fly it and we are flying it or
trying to
darkus hypersonic test vehicle is the
fastest maneuvering aircraft ever built
it's boosted to near space atop a
Minotaur 4 rocket now the Minotaur 4 has
too much impulse so we have to bleed it
off by flying the rocket at an 89 degree
angle of attack for portions of the
trajectory that's an unnatural act for a
rocket the third stage has a camera we
call it rocket cam and it's pointed at
the hypersonic glider this is the actual
rocket cam footage from flight 1 now to
conceal the shape we change the aspect
ratio a little bit but this is what it
looks
like from the third stage of the rocket
looking at the unmanned glider as it
heads into the atmosphere back towards
Earth we've flown twice in the first
flight no aerodynamic control of the
vehicle but we collected more hypersonic
flight data than in 30 years of
ground-based testing combined and in the
second flight three minutes of fully
controlled aerodynamic flight at Mach 20
we must fly again because amazing never
been done before things require that you
fly you can't learn to fly at Mach 20
unless you fly and while there's no
substitute for speed manoeuvrability is
a very close second if a Mach 20 glider
takes 11 minutes and 20 seconds to get
from New York to Long Beach a
hummingbird
would take well days you see
hummingbirds are not hypersonic but they
are maneuverable in fact the hummingbird
is the only bird that can fly backwards
it can fly up down forwards backwards
even upside down and so if we wanted to
fly in this room or places where humans
can't go we'd need an aircraft small
enough and maneuverable enough to do so
this is a hummingbird drone it can fly
in all directions even backwards it can
hover and rotate this prototype aircraft
is equipped with a video camera it
weighs less than one double-a battery it
does not eat nectar in 2008 it flew for
a whopping 20 seconds a year later two
minutes then six eventually 11 many
prototypes crash
many but there's no way to learn to fly
like a hummingbird unless you fly
it's beautiful isn't it Wow Matt is the
first-ever hummingbird pilot
failure is part of creating new and
amazing things we cannot both fear
failure and make amazing new things like
a robot with the stability of a dog on
rough terrain or maybe even ice a robot
that can run like a cheetah or climb
stairs like a human with the occasional
clumsiness of a human or perhaps Spider
Man will one day be gecko man a gecko
can support its entire body weight with
one toe one square millimeter of a
geckos foot pad has 14,000 hair like
structures called setae they are used to
help it grip two surfaces using
intermolecular forces today we can
manufacture structures that mimic the
hairs of a geckos foot the result a four
by four inch
artificial nano gecko adhesive can
support a static load of 660 pounds
that's enough to stick six 42 inch
plasma TVs to your wall no nails so much
for velcro right and it's not just
passive structures its entire machines
this is a spider mite it's one
millimetre long but it looks like
Godzilla next to these micro machines in
the world of Godzilla spider mites we
can make millions of mirrors each
one-fifth the diameter of a human hair
moving at hundreds of thousands of times
per second to make large screen displays
so that we can watch movies like
Godzilla in high-def and if we can build
machines at that scale what about ISIL
tower like trusses at the micro scale
today we are making metal
that are lighter than styrofoam so light
they can sit atop a dandelion puffs and
be blown away with a wisp of air so
light that you can make a car that two
people can lift but so strong that it
has the crash worthiness of an SUV from
the smallest wisp of air to the powerful
forces of nature storms there are 44
lightning strikes per second around the
globe each lightning bolt heats the air
to 44 thousand degrees Fahrenheit hotter
than the surface of the Sun what if we
could use these electromagnetic pulses
as beacons beacons in a moving network
of powerful transmitters experiments
suggest that lightning could be the next
GPS electrical pulses form the thoughts
in our brains
using a grid the size of your thumb with
32 electrodes on the surface of his
brain Tim uses his thoughts to control
an advanced prosthetic arm and his
thoughts made him reach for Katie this
is the first time a human has controlled
a robot with thought alone and it is the
first time that Tim has held Katie's
hand in seven years that moment mattered
to Tim and Katie and this green goo may
someday matter to you this green goo is
perhaps the vaccine that could save your
life
it was made in tobacco plants tobacco
plants can make millions of doses a
vaccine in weeks instead of months and
it might just be the first healthy use
of tobacco ever and if it seems
far-fetched that tobacco plants could
make people healthy
what about game
that could solve problems that experts
can't solve last September the gamers of
Foldit solve the three-dimensional
structure of the retro viral protease
that contributes to AIDS in rhesus
monkeys now understanding this structure
is very important for developing
treatments for 15 years
it was unsolved in the scientific
community the gamers have folded solved
it in 15 days now they were able to do
so by working together they were able to
work together because they're connected
by the internet and others also
connected to the internet used it as an
instrument of democracy and together
they changed the fate of their nation
the Internet is home to two billion
people or 30% of the world's population
it allows us to contribute and to be
heard as individuals it allows us to
amplify our voices and our power as a
group but it too had humble beginnings
in 1969 the internet was but a dream a
few sketches on a piece of paper and
then on October 29th the first
packet-switched message was sent from
UCLA to SR I the first two letters of
the word login that's all that made it
through an L and an O and then a buffer
overflow crashed the system two letters
an L and an O now a worldwide force so
who are these scientists and engineers
at a magical place called DARPA they are
nerds and they are heroes among us they
challenge existing perspectives at the
edges of science and under the most
demanding of conditions they remind us
that we can change the world
if we defy the impossible and we refuse
to fear failure they remind us that we
all have nerd power sometimes we just
forget you see there was a time when you
weren't afraid of failure when you were
a great artist or a great dancer and you
could sing you're good at math you could
build things you were an astronaut an
adventurer Jacques Cousteau you could
jump higher run faster kick harder than
anyone you believed in impossible things
and you were fearless
you were totally and completely in touch
with your inner superhero scientists and
engineers can indeed change the world
so can you you were born - so go ahead
ask yourself what would you attempt to
do if you knew you could not fail now I
want to say this is not easy it's hard
to hold on to this feeling really hard I
guess in some way I sort of believe it's
supposed to be hard
doubt and fear always creep in we think
someone else someone smarter than us
someone more capable someone with more
resources will solve that problem but
there isn't anyone else there's just you
and if we're lucky in that moment
someone steps into that doubt and fear
takes a hand and says let me help you
believe Jason harley did that for me
Jason started at DARPA on March 18th
2010 he was with our transportation team
I saw Jason nearly every day sometimes
twice a day
and more so than most he saw the highs
and the lows the celebrations and the
disappointments and on one
particularly dark day for me Jason sat
down and he wrote an email he was
encouraging but firm and when he hit
Send he probably didn't realize what a
difference it would make it mattered to
me in that moment and still today when I
doubt when I feel afraid when I need to
reconnect with that feeling I remember
his words they were so powerful
[Music]
because that's what being a superhero is
all
[Applause]
there is only time enough to iron your
cape and back to the skies for you and
remember be nice to nerds
thank you thank you
we're gonna thank you I have a couple of
questions do ya
so that glider of yours the Mach 20
glider the first one no control it ended
up in the Pacific I think so what
happened on that second flight yeah it
also went in the Pacific but this time
under control no we didn't fly it into
the Pacific right no there are multiple
portions of the trajectory that are
demanding in terms of really flying at
that speed and so in the second flight
we were able to get three minutes of
fully aerodynamic control of the vehicle
before we lost it I imagine you're not
planning to open up to passenger service
from no it might be a little warm do you
picture what what do you picture that
lighter being used for well our
responsibility is to develop the
technology for this how it's ultimately
used will be determined by the military
now the purpose of the vehicle though
the purpose of the technology is to be
able to reach anywhere in the world in
less than 60 minutes and to carry a
payload of more than a few pounds yeah
like what's the payload carry well I
don't think we ultimately know what it
will be right we got to fly it first but
not necessarily just a camera yeah no
not necessarily just a camera it's it's
amazing the that the hummingbird yeah I
mean I'm curious you know you started
your beautiful sequence on flight with
with a wing kind of trying to flap its
wings and failing horribly yeah they
haven't been that many planes built
since that flap away yes yeah
why why did we think that this was the
time to go biomimicry and copier a
hummingbird isn't that a very expensive
solution for a small well maneuverable
flying object so I mean in part we
wondered if it was possible to do it and
you have to revisit these questions over
time the folks at aerovironment tried
300 or more different wing designs
twelve different forms of the avionics
took them 10
full prototypes to get something that
would actually fly but there's something
really interesting about a flying
machine that looks like something you'd
recognize so we often talk about stealth
as a means for avoiding any type of
sensing but when things look just
natural you also don't see them mamie
stealth it's partly the the look
especially its sure
look at that cute hummingbird flying
into my headquarters because that's I
think as well as the or and looking at
yeah I'm sure some people here thinking
you know technology catches up so quick
how long is it before some crazed geek
with a little remote-control flies one
through a wouldn't over the white house
I mean do you worry about the Pandora's
Box issue here well look our singular
mission is the creation and Prevention
of strategic surprise that's what we do
it would be inconceivable for us to do
that work if we didn't make people
excited and uncomfortable with the
things that we do at the same time it's
just the nature of what we do now our
responsibility is to push that edge and
you know we have to be of course mindful
and responsible of how the technology is
developed and ultimately used but we
can't simply close our eyes and pretend
that it isn't advancing its advancing I
mean you're clearly a really inspiring
leader and you persuade people to go to
these great feats of invention but at a
personal level I mean like anyway I
can't imagine doing your job do you wake
up in the night sometimes just asking
questions about the possibly unintended
consequences of your team's brilliance
sure I mean I think it would you
couldn't be human if you didn't ask
those questions you know how do you
answer well I don't always have answers
for them right I think that we learn as
time goes on I mean my job is one of the
most exhilarating jobs you could have
I work with some of the most amazing
people and with that exhilaration comes
a really deep sense of responsibility
and so you have on the one hand this
tremendous lift of what's possible right
and this tremendous seriousness of what
it means we're gonna that was
jaw-dropping to say say thank you so
much
[Applause]
[Music]